1. Write a blog on Difference between HTTP1.1 vs HTTP2
A. HTTP 2 has weighted prioritization. Developers have hands on control over prioritization.
B. Multiplexing - In HTTP2 resources are send as multiple stream of data at once. In HTTP1.1 resources are sent one after another.
C. Server push - In HTTP2 multiple page resources are pushed to client. In HTTP1.1 resources are only sent based on the request.
D. Header compression - HTTP2 use HPACK compression method that eliminate redundant information in HTTP header packets.
2. Write a blog about objects and its internal representation in JavaScript
An object in JS is a reference data type that can have any number of combination of primitive data types(int, str, Boolean, null, undefined and symbol) and reference data(Object) types.
Variables that are assigned a reference value are given a reference or a pointer to that value. That reference or pointer points to the location in memory where the object is stored. The variables don’t actually store the value. Data in an object are stored as key value pair.
A property of a object can be referred to the varaiable attached to the object. The properties can be accessed using dot notation or bracket notation.
3. codekata practice
4. Read about IP address, port, HTTP methods, MAC address
IP address: Unique number/address to identify a server/device on the internet.
Popular version IPv4 and IPv6.
Port: Port numbers identify a particular application or service on a system. Port numbers consist of 16-bit numbers.
There are 65,535 port numbers, restricted port numbers range from 0 to 1023. Those who want to register a specific port number can choose from 1024 to 49151. Private ports ranging from 49152 to 65536 are available for anyone to use.
HTTP methods: There are 9 request methods.
GET - Read resource. The purpose of the GET method is to simply retrieve data from the server.
PUT - Create or overwrite a resource.
POST - Used to modify and update a resource.
DELETE - Deletes the specified resource.
HEAD - The HEAD method asks for a response identical to a GET request, but without the response body.
PATCH - The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource.
OPTION - The OPTIONS method describes the communication options for the target resource.
TRACE - The TRACE method performs a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.
CONNECT - The CONNECT method establishes a tunnel to the server identified by the target resource.
Mac address: A MAC address (media access control address) is a 12-digit hexadecimal number assigned to each device connected to the network.